torchrec_dlrm/README.MD, before:

# TorchRec DLRM Example

`dlrm_main.py` trains, validates, and tests a [Deep Learning Recommendation Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.00091) (DLRM) with TorchRec. The DLRM model contains both data parallel components (e.g. multi-layer perceptrons & interaction arch) and model parallel components (e.g. embedding tables). The DLRM model is pipelined so that dataloading, data-parallel to model-parallel comms, and forward/backward are overlapped. Can be run with either a random dataloader or [Criteo 1 TB click logs dataset](https://ailab.criteo.com/download-criteo-1tb-click-logs-dataset/).

It has been tested on the following cloud instance types:
| Cloud  | Instance Type       | GPUs             | vCPUs | Memory (GB) |
| ------ | ------------------- | ---------------- | ----- | ----------- |
| AWS    | p4d.24xlarge        | 8 x A100 (40GB)  | 96    | 1152        |
| Azure  | Standard_ND96asr_v4 | 8 x A100 (40GB)  | 96    | 900         |
| GCP    | a2-megagpu-16g      | 16 x A100 (40GB) | 96    | 1300        |

# Running

## Install dependencies
`pip install tqdm torchmetrics`

## Torchx
We recommend using [torchx](https://pytorch.org/torchx/main/quickstart.html) to run. Here we use the [DDP builtin](https://pytorch.org/torchx/main/components/distributed.html)

1. pip install torchx
2. (optional) setup a slurm or kubernetes cluster
3.
    a. locally: `torchx run -s local_cwd dist.ddp -j 1x2 --script dlrm_main.py`
    b. remotely: `torchx run -s slurm dist.ddp -j 1x8 --script dlrm_main.py`

## TorchRun
You can also use [torchrun](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/elastic/run.html).
* e.g. `torchrun --nnodes 1 --nproc_per_node 2 --rdzv_backend c10d --rdzv_endpoint localhost --rdzv_id 54321 --role trainer dlrm_main.py`


## Preliminary Training Results

**Setup:**
* Dataset: Criteo 1TB Click Logs dataset
* CUDA 11.0, NCCL 2.10.3.
* AWS p4d24xlarge instances, each with 8 40GB NVIDIA A100s.

**Results**

Common settings across all runs:

```
--num_embeddings_per_feature "45833188,36746,17245,7413,20243,3,7114,1441,62,29275261,1572176,345138,10,2209,11267,128,4,974,14,48937457,11316796,40094537,452104,12606,104,35" --embedding_dim_size 128 --pin_memory --over_arch_layer_sizes "1024,1024,512,256,1" --dense_arch_layer_sizes "512,256,128" --epochs 1 --shuffle_batches
```

|Number of GPUs|Collective Size of Embedding Tables (GiB)|Local Batch Size|Global Batch Size|Learning Rate|AUROC over Val Set After 1 Epoch|AUROC Over Test Set After 1 Epoch|Train Records/Second|Time to Train 1 Epoch | Unique Flags |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|8|91.10|256|2048|1.0|0.8032480478286743|0.8032934069633484|~284,615 rec/s| 4h7m00s | `--batch_size 256 --learning_rate 1.0`|
|1|91.10|16384|16384|15.0|0.8025434017181396|0.8026024103164673|~740,065 rec/s| 1h35m29s | `--batch_size 16384 --learning_rate 15.0 --change_lr --lr_change_point 0.65 --lr_after_change_point 0.035` |
|4|91.10|4096|16384|15.0|0.8030692934989929|0.8030484914779663|~1,458,176 rec/s| 48m39s | `--batch_size 4096 --learning_rate 15.0 --change_lr --lr_change_point 0.80 --lr_after_change_point 0.20` |
|8|91.10|2048|16384|15.0|0.802501916885376|0.8025660514831543|~1,671,168 rec/s| 43m24s | `--batch_size 2048 --learning_rate 15.0 --change_lr --lr_change_point 0.80 --lr_after_change_point 0.20` |
|8|91.10|8192|65536|15.0|0.7996258735656738|0.7996508479118347|~5,373,952 rec/s| 13m40s | `--batch_size 8192 --learning_rate 15.0`|

QPS (train record/second) is calculated by using the following formula: `x it/s * local_batch_size * num_gpus`. The `it/s`
can be found within the logs of the training results.

The final row, using 8 GPUs with a batch size of 8192, was not tuned to hit the MLPerf benchmark but is shown to
highlight the QPS (train record/second) achievable with torchrec.

The `change_lr` parameter activates the variable learning rate schedule. `lr_after_change_point` is a parameter that we use to dictate the point
at which we'll shift the learning rate to the value specified by `lr_change_point`. We found that having a high learning rate to start (e.g. 15.0) and dropping to a smaller learning rate (e.g. 0.20) near the end of the first epoch (e.g. 80% through) helped us converge faster to the 0.8025 MLPerf AUROC metric.

**Reproduce**

Run the following command to reproduce the results for a single node (8 GPUs) on AWS. This command makes use of the `aws_component.py` script.

Ensure to:
- set $PATH_TO_1TB_NUMPY_FILES to the path with the pre-processed .npy files of the Criteo 1TB dataset.
- set $TRAIN_QUEUE to the partition that handles training jobs

Example command:
```
torchx run --scheduler slurm --scheduler_args partition=$TRAIN_QUEUE,time=5:00:00 aws_component.py:run_dlrm_main --num_trainers=8 -- --pin_memory --batch_size 2048 --epochs 1 --num_embeddings_per_feature "45833188,36746,17245,7413,20243,3,7114,1441,62,29275261,1572176,345138,10,2209,11267,128,4,974,14,48937457,11316796,40094537,452104,12606,104,35" --embedding_dim 128 --dense_arch_layer_sizes "512,256,128" --over_arch_layer_sizes "1024,1024,512,256,1" --in_memory_binary_criteo_path $PATH_TO_1TB_NUMPY_FILES --learning_rate 15.0 --shuffle_batches --change_lr --lr_change_point 0.80 --lr_after_change_point 0.20
```
Upon scheduling the job, there should be an output that looks like this:

```
warnings.warn(
slurm://torchx/14731
torchx 2022-01-07 21:06:59 INFO     Launched app: slurm://torchx/14731
torchx 2022-01-07 21:06:59 INFO     AppStatus:
  msg: ''
  num_restarts: -1
  roles: []
  state: UNKNOWN (7)
  structured_error_msg: <NONE>
  ui_url: null

torchx 2022-01-07 21:06:59 INFO     Job URL: None
```

In this example, the job was launched to: `slurm://torchx/14731`.

Run the following commands to check the status of your job and read the logs:

```
# Status should be "RUNNING" if properly scheduled
torchx status slurm://torchx/14731

# Log file was automatically created in the directory where you launched the job from
cat slurm-14731.out

```

The results from the training can be found in the log file (e.g. `slurm-14731.out`).

**Debugging**

The `--validation_freq_within_epoch x` parameter can be used to print the AUROC every `x` iterations through an epoch.

The in-memory dataloader can take approximately 20-30 minutes to load the data into memory before training starts. The
`--mmap_mode` parameter can be used to load data from disk which reduces start-up time for training at the cost
of QPS.

**TODO/Work In Progress**
* Write section on how to pre-process the dataset.

Commit message:

Update preproc readme (#550)
Summary:
X-link: https://github.com/pytorch/torchrec/pull/550

Pull Request resolved: https://github.com/facebookresearch/dlrm/pull/261

Add shuffle script and commands

Reviewed By: colin2328

Differential Revision: D38159846

fbshipit-source-id: cdf52704f1c26c4cc89ba1f4a92721be79f918fd

torchrec_dlrm/README.MD, after:

# TorchRec DLRM Example

`dlrm_main.py` trains, validates, and tests a [Deep Learning Recommendation Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.00091) (DLRM) with TorchRec. The DLRM model contains both data parallel components (e.g. multi-layer perceptrons & interaction arch) and model parallel components (e.g. embedding tables). The DLRM model is pipelined so that dataloading, data-parallel to model-parallel comms, and forward/backward are overlapped. Can be run with either a random dataloader or [Criteo 1 TB click logs dataset](https://ailab.criteo.com/download-criteo-1tb-click-logs-dataset/).

It has been tested on the following cloud instance types:
| Cloud  | Instance Type       | GPUs             | vCPUs | Memory (GB) |
| ------ | ------------------- | ---------------- | ----- | ----------- |
| AWS    | p4d.24xlarge        | 8 x A100 (40GB)  | 96    | 1152        |
| Azure  | Standard_ND96asr_v4 | 8 x A100 (40GB)  | 96    | 900         |
| GCP    | a2-megagpu-16g      | 16 x A100 (40GB) | 96    | 1300        |

# Running

## Install dependencies
`pip install tqdm torchmetrics`

## Torchx
We recommend using [torchx](https://pytorch.org/torchx/main/quickstart.html) to run. Here we use the [DDP builtin](https://pytorch.org/torchx/main/components/distributed.html)

1. pip install torchx
2. (optional) setup a slurm or kubernetes cluster
3.
    a. locally: `torchx run -s local_cwd dist.ddp -j 1x2 --script dlrm_main.py`
    b. remotely: `torchx run -s slurm dist.ddp -j 1x8 --script dlrm_main.py`

## TorchRun
You can also use [torchrun](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/elastic/run.html).
* e.g. `torchrun --nnodes 1 --nproc_per_node 2 --rdzv_backend c10d --rdzv_endpoint localhost --rdzv_id 54321 --role trainer dlrm_main.py`


## Preliminary Training Results

**Setup:**
* Dataset: Criteo 1TB Click Logs dataset
* CUDA 11.0, NCCL 2.10.3.
* AWS p4d24xlarge instances, each with 8 40GB NVIDIA A100s.

**Results**

Common settings across all runs:

```
--num_embeddings_per_feature "45833188,36746,17245,7413,20243,3,7114,1441,62,29275261,1572176,345138,10,2209,11267,128,4,974,14,48937457,11316796,40094537,452104,12606,104,35" --embedding_dim_size 128 --pin_memory --over_arch_layer_sizes "1024,1024,512,256,1" --dense_arch_layer_sizes "512,256,128" --epochs 1 --shuffle_batches
```

|Number of GPUs|Collective Size of Embedding Tables (GiB)|Local Batch Size|Global Batch Size|Learning Rate|AUROC over Val Set After 1 Epoch|AUROC Over Test Set After 1 Epoch|Train Records/Second|Time to Train 1 Epoch | Unique Flags |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|8|91.10|256|2048|1.0|0.8032480478286743|0.8032934069633484|~284,615 rec/s| 4h7m00s | `--batch_size 256 --learning_rate 1.0`|
|1|91.10|16384|16384|15.0|0.8025434017181396|0.8026024103164673|~740,065 rec/s| 1h35m29s | `--batch_size 16384 --learning_rate 15.0 --change_lr --lr_change_point 0.65 --lr_after_change_point 0.035` |
|4|91.10|4096|16384|15.0|0.8030692934989929|0.8030484914779663|~1,458,176 rec/s| 48m39s | `--batch_size 4096 --learning_rate 15.0 --change_lr --lr_change_point 0.80 --lr_after_change_point 0.20` |
|8|91.10|2048|16384|15.0|0.802501916885376|0.8025660514831543|~1,671,168 rec/s| 43m24s | `--batch_size 2048 --learning_rate 15.0 --change_lr --lr_change_point 0.80 --lr_after_change_point 0.20` |
|8|91.10|8192|65536|15.0|0.7996258735656738|0.7996508479118347|~5,373,952 rec/s| 13m40s | `--batch_size 8192 --learning_rate 15.0`|

QPS (train record/second) is calculated by using the following formula: `x it/s * local_batch_size * num_gpus`. The `it/s`
can be found within the logs of the training results.

The final row, using 8 GPUs with a batch size of 8192, was not tuned to hit the MLPerf benchmark but is shown to
highlight the QPS (train record/second) achievable with torchrec.

The `change_lr` parameter activates the variable learning rate schedule. `lr_after_change_point` is a parameter that we use to dictate the point
at which we'll shift the learning rate to the value specified by `lr_change_point`. We found that having a high learning rate to start (e.g. 15.0) and dropping to a smaller learning rate (e.g. 0.20) near the end of the first epoch (e.g. 80% through) helped us converge faster to the 0.8025 MLPerf AUROC metric.

**Reproduce**

Run the following command to reproduce the results for a single node (8 GPUs) on AWS. This command makes use of the `aws_component.py` script.

Ensure to:
- set $PATH_TO_1TB_NUMPY_FILES to the path with the pre-processed .npy files of the Criteo 1TB dataset.
- set $TRAIN_QUEUE to the partition that handles training jobs

Preprocessing command:

```
git clone torchrec
cd torchrec/datasets/scripts/


After downloading the [Criteo 1TB Click Logs dataset](https://storage.googleapis.com/criteo-cail-datasets/day_{0-23}.gz), the tsv files must be preprocessed to ensure they're in the proper format for training.
Run the following scripts to preprocess:

1. `npy_preproc_criteo.py` - Split the dataset into dense, sparse and labels (~24hrs)

For example:

python npy_preproc_criteo.py --input_dir /path_to_raw_files_dir --output_path $PATH_TO_1TB_NUMPY_FILES_NON_SHUFFLED

# path_to_raw_files_dir should contain the raw TSV criteo files downloaded from

2. `shuffle_preproc_criteo.py` - Shuffle the split dataset. (~20hrs)

python shuffle_preproc_criteo.py --input_dir_labels_and_dense $PATH_TO_1TB_NUMPY_FILES_NON_SHUFFLED --input_dir_sparse $PATH_TO_1TB_NUMPY_FILES_NON_SHUFFLED --output_dir_shuffled PATH_TO_1TB_NUMPY_FILES --random_seed 0

These scripts take 700GB of RAM to run, and can take several (4-5) days to run. We currently have features in development to reduce the preproccessing time and memory overhead.

# We are working on improving this experience, for updates about this see https://github.com/pytorch/torchrec/tree/main/examples/nvt_dataloader

```

Example command:
```
torchx run --scheduler slurm --scheduler_args partition=$TRAIN_QUEUE,time=5:00:00 aws_component.py:run_dlrm_main --num_trainers=8 -- --pin_memory --batch_size 2048 --epochs 1 --num_embeddings_per_feature "45833188,36746,17245,7413,20243,3,7114,1441,62,29275261,1572176,345138,10,2209,11267,128,4,974,14,48937457,11316796,40094537,452104,12606,104,35" --embedding_dim 128 --dense_arch_layer_sizes "512,256,128" --over_arch_layer_sizes "1024,1024,512,256,1" --in_memory_binary_criteo_path $PATH_TO_1TB_NUMPY_FILES --learning_rate 15.0 --shuffle_batches --change_lr --lr_change_point 0.80 --lr_after_change_point 0.20
```
Upon scheduling the job, there should be an output that looks like this:

```
warnings.warn(
slurm://torchx/14731
torchx 2022-01-07 21:06:59 INFO     Launched app: slurm://torchx/14731
torchx 2022-01-07 21:06:59 INFO     AppStatus:
  msg: ''
  num_restarts: -1
  roles: []
  state: UNKNOWN (7)
  structured_error_msg: <NONE>
  ui_url: null

torchx 2022-01-07 21:06:59 INFO     Job URL: None
```

In this example, the job was launched to: `slurm://torchx/14731`.

Run the following commands to check the status of your job and read the logs:

```
# Status should be "RUNNING" if properly scheduled
torchx status slurm://torchx/14731

# Log file was automatically created in the directory where you launched the job from
cat slurm-14731.out

```

The results from the training can be found in the log file (e.g. `slurm-14731.out`).

**Debugging**

The `--validation_freq_within_epoch x` parameter can be used to print the AUROC every `x` iterations through an epoch.

The in-memory dataloader can take approximately 20-30 minutes to load the data into memory before training starts. The
`--mmap_mode` parameter can be used to load data from disk which reduces start-up time for training at the cost
of QPS.

**TODO/Work In Progress**
* Write section on how to pre-process the dataset.
